There are times when the rate of a reaction needs to be slowed down. Lowering the temperature could also be used to decrease the number of collisions that would occur and lowering the temperature would also reduce the kinetic energy available for activation energy. If the particles have insufficient activation energy, the collisions will result in rebound rather than reaction. Using this idea, when the rate of a reaction needs to be lower, keeping the particles from having sufficient activation energy will definitely keep the reaction at a lower rate. Society uses the effect of temperature on rate every day. Food storage is a prime example of how the temperature effect on reaction rate is utilized by society. Consumers store food in freezers and refrigerators to slow down the processes that cause it to spoil. The decrease in temperature decreases the rate at which the food will break down or be broken down by bacteria. In the early years of the 20th century, explorers were fascinated with trying to be the first one to reach the South Pole. In order to attempt such a difficult task at a time without most of the technology we take for granted today, they devised a variety of ways of surviving. One method was to store their food in the snow to be used later during their advances to the pole. On some explorations, they buried so much food, that they didn’t need to use all of it and it was left. Many years later, when this food was located and thawed, it was found to still be edible.
When milk, for instance, is stored in the refrigerator, the molecules in the milk have less energy. This means that while molecules will still collide with other molecules, few of them will react (which means in this case “spoil”) because the molecules do not have sufficient energy to overcome the activation energy barrier. The molecules do have energy and are colliding, however, and so, over time, even in the refrigerator, the milk will spoil. Eventually the higher energy molecules will gain the energy needed to react and when enough of these reactions occur, the milk becomes “soured”. However, if that same carton of milk was at room temperature, the milk would react (in other words “spoil’) much more quickly. Now most of the molecules will have sufficient energy to overcome the energy barrier and at room temperature many more collisions will be occurring. This allows for the milk to spoil in a fairly short amount of time. This is also the reason why most fruits and vegetables ripen in the summer when the temperature is much warmer. You may have experienced this first hand if you have ever bitten into an unripe banana – it was probably sour tasting and might even have felt like biting into a piece of wood! When a banana ripens, numerous reactions occur that produce all the compounds that we expect to taste in a banana. But this can only happen if the temperature is high enough to allow these reactions to make those products.