
Create
Back
Test
4 Written questions

    A region on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean, in what is now Israel and Palestine, revered by Christians as the place in which Christ lived and taught, and by Jews as the land given to the people of Israel.

a French medieval lyric poet composing and singing in Provençal in the 11th to 13th centuries, especially on the theme of courtly love.
Of or in the style of architecture prevalent in western Europe in the 12th-16th centuries, characterized by pointed arches, rib vaults, and flying buttresses, together with large windows and elaborate tracery.
A buttress slanting from a separate pier, typically forming an arch with the wall it supports.
4 Matching questions

    Thomas Aquinas
    Pope Urban II
    Richard the Lionheart
    Hildegard of Bingen

    King of England from 6 July 1189 until his death. He also ruled as Duke of Normandy, Aquitaine and Gascony, Lord of Cyprus, Count of Poitiers, Anjou, Maine, and Nantes, and Overlord of Brittany at various times during the same period.
    Born Odo of Châtillon or Otho de Lagery, was Pope from 12 March 1088 to his death in 1099.
    A German Benedictine abbess, writer, composer, philosopher, Christian mystic, visionary, and polymath.
    An Italian Dominican friar, Catholic priest, and Doctor of the Church

3 Multiple choice questions

    Widely considered the greatest English poet of the Middle Ages and was the first poet to be buried in Poets' Corner of Westminster Abbey

A manuscript in which the text is supplemented with such decoration as initials, borders (marginalia) and miniature illustrations

The first sultan of Egypt and Syria and the founder of the Ayyubid dynasty.

3 True/False questions

    The system of theology and philosophy taught in medieval European universities, based on Aristotelian logic and the writings of the early Church Fathers and having a strong emphasis on tradition and dogma. → Scholasticism

A series of religious wars sanctioned by the Latin Church between the 11th and 16th centuries, especially the campaigns in the Eastern Mediterranean with the aim of capturing Jerusalem from Islamic rule. → Crusades
A major Italian poet of the Late Middle Ages. His Divine Comedy, originally called Comedìa and later christened Divina → Dante
Advertisement
Upgrade to remove ads
