Your Firefox is out-of-date.

Get the most recent version to keep browsing securely.
Update Firefox
Mozilla

    Firefox Pocket Internet Health Technology About Us Get Involved 

    Download Firefox

The Mozilla Manifesto Addendum
Pledge for a Healthy Internet

The open, global internet is the most powerful communication and collaboration resource we have ever seen. It embodies some of our deepest hopes for human progress. It enables new opportunities for learning, building a sense of shared humanity, and solving the pressing problems facing people everywhere.

Over the last decade we have seen this promise fulfilled in many ways. We have also seen the power of the internet used to magnify divisiveness, incite violence, promote hatred, and intentionally manipulate fact and reality. We have learned that we should more explicitly set out our aspirations for the human experience of the internet. We do so now.

    We are committed to an internet that includes all the peoples of the earth — where a person’s demographic characteristics do not determine their online access, opportunities, or quality of experience.
    We are committed to an internet that promotes civil discourse, human dignity, and individual expression.
    We are committed to an internet that elevates critical thinking, reasoned argument, shared knowledge, and verifiable facts.
    We are committed to an internet that catalyzes collaboration among diverse communities working together for the common good.

Show Your Support

An internet with these qualities will not come to life on its own. Individuals and organizations must embed these aspirations into internet technology and into the human experience with the internet. The Mozilla Manifesto and Addendum represent Mozilla’s commitment to advancing these aspirations. We aim to work together with people and organizations everywhere who share these goals to make the internet an even better place for everyone.

Share on Twitter
Our 10 Principles
Principle 1 The internet is an integral part of modern life—a key component in education, communication, collaboration, business, entertainment and society as a whole.
Learn more

    Use Open Badges to share your skills and interests
    Explore how the web impacts science
    Learn about open source code in journalism

Principle 2 The internet is a global public resource that must remain open and accessible.
Learn more

    Read about open internet policy initiatives and developments
    Explore how to help keep the web open

Principle 3 The internet must enrich the lives of individual human beings.
Learn more

    See how the web can connect the world to healthcare
    Explore how the web works

Principle 4 Individuals’ security and privacy on the internet are fundamental and must not be treated as optional.
Learn more

    See how Mozilla works to put your privacy first
    Read about developments in privacy and data safety
    Learn more about how to protect yourself online

Principle 5 Individuals must have the ability to shape the internet and their own experiences on it.
Learn more

    Use these free tools to teach the web
    Learn about creating and curating content for the web

Principle 6 The effectiveness of the internet as a public resource depends upon interoperability (protocols, data formats, content), innovation and decentralized participation worldwide.
Learn more

    Add new voices to open source technology
    Set your Do Not Track preference
    Understand the web ecosystem

Principle 7 Free and open source software promotes the development of the internet as a public resource.
Learn more

    Explore how open practices keep the web accessible
    Learn how to remix content to create something new
    Learn how to maximize the interactive potential of the web

Principle 8 Transparent community-based processes promote participation, accountability and trust.
Learn more

    Participate in our governance forum
    Join us as a volunteer
    Join us as a student ambassador
    Learn how to collaborate online

Principle 9 Commercial involvement in the development of the internet brings many benefits; a balance between commercial profit and public benefit is critical.
Learn more

    Visualize who you interact with on the web with Lightbeam
    Learn about creating web resources with others

Principle 10 Magnifying the public benefit aspects of the internet is an important goal, worthy of time, attention and commitment.
Learn more

    Host or join a Maker Party
    Learn how to build online collaboration skills

Share on Twitter

Read the entire manifesto
Love the web?
Get the Mozilla newsletter and help us keep it open and free.
Mozilla
Mozilla

    About
    Blog
    Contact Us
    Donate
    Contribute to this site
    Source code for this page
        Twitter (@mozilla)
        Facebook (Mozilla)
        Instagram (@mozilla)

Firefox

    Download Firefox
    Desktop
    Mobile
    Features
    Beta, Nightly, Developer Edition
        Twitter (@firefox)
        Facebook (Firefox)
        YouTube (firefoxchannel)

    Website Privacy Notice Cookies Legal 

Portions of this content are 1998–2018 by individual mozilla.org contributors. Content available under a Creative Commons license.
Language
